Now we're gonna be talking
about transitions,
guarded transitions in particular.
So guarded transitions
are transitions that have
a conditional guard,
which is called cond, C-O-N-D,
and that guard tells us whether or
not we're allowed to take this transition.
So if that guard returns anything falsy,
then that means that no actions
are gonna be executed and
the transition is not going to be taken.
So an example of this, let's say that
you have a promise state machine.
When you go from the idle to
the pending states on a fetch request,
you are waiting for
something to come back.
And that could be either resolve events or
reject events.
Now, remember,
events objects can contain payload.
So it might be useful to use guarded
transitions to check that the payload
in the events satisfy certain criteria or
that our context itself
satisfies certain criteria.
So if we go to the original XState
visualizer example over here,
we could see that there is
an action that assigns retries.
And so these retries are going to
keep incrementing in the states
whenever we fail.
So we see the retries are 0, but
when we click retry it goes to 0,
goes to 2, etc., etc.
So if we wanted to add a guard here,
we could say that, you know what,
we're no longer allowed to retry
if we have more than five retries.
We could say, hey,
you've tried this too many times.
I promise you, it's going to fail,
pun not intended.
So reject failure retry,
we could say that we want
this retry transition to only happen
if we have less than five retries.
So to do that we specify
a conditional predicate.
And just like everything else,
that conditional is going to take
the current context and
the events that it received, and
we're going to return
context.retries is less than 5.
So we can have no more than five retries.
So let's update this, and you'll see
that we have a green cond over here.
And it's green because
the visualizer understands that
it is currently truthy right now.
And so if we reject, retry, reject,
retry we're gonna see that that turns
red after so many retries, and
then we could no longer retry.
So this turns red and we're no longer
allowed to take this transition
because the retries is five or more.
Now this cond doesn't look too
nice in the visualizer, which is
why we could also serialize this condition
as well, or this conditional guard.
So we could say cond,
noExceededRetries, naming things is hard.
So we could specify in
the guards over here
noExceededRetries, and
we could say this is what that means.
So when you see a noExceededRetries guard,
this is the guard that you want
to check against in order to see if
a transition can be taken or not.
So let's update that, and
now you will see over here it says
noExceededRetries, and
it's going to work the exact same way.
To define the guard,
it's just like we showed.
You have the condition,
which is cond over here, and
you are returning true or false based on
whether or not a condition can be taken.
Again, this can be separated
out into a function and
referred to by that function, and
then you could also specify
that in the options.guards.